[ Real-Time Indoor Localization in Smart Ho]
2.1 Notable Indoor Localization Technologies
Technologies used for positioning around the world are numerous
and vary both in size and cost, but also in their precision and
difficulty to actually deploy them. However, when trying to locate
people or items in a closed environment, different factors have to
be considered: radio wave based technologies suffer from wall
penetration problems, which either stops the signal or causes
interferences. Cost and scalability is another factor to be
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for
personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are
not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies
bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. To copy otherwise,
or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior
specific permission and/or a fee.
PETRA '16, June 29-July 01, 2016, Corfu Island, Greece
© 2016 ACM. ISBN 978-1-4503-4337-4/16/06…$15.00.
DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2910674.2910718
considered: indoor systems work on a much lower scale and thus
need smaller and more precise hardware.
2.1.1 Bluetooth (IEEE 802.15)
Bluetooth is a wireless protocol operating in the 2.4GHz ISM band.
It has a shorter range than other wireless protocols, such as WLAN
(IEEE 802.11), but can provide signal using small size tags with
unique IDs used for localization. It has been observed [2] that
Bluetooth performed better, in most cases, than WLAN with the
same number of bases. Several commercial implementations of this
technology already exist [3] such as Topaz and BLPA.
2.1.2 RFID
RFID can be used in two different ways: actively and passively. In
a comparable environment, active RFID tags are much more
effective than passive tags thanks to the use of an internal power
source. Implementation by Hekimian-Williams et al. [4] achieves
an accuracy to the millimeter. On the other hand, despite a
decreased accuracy, passive RFID tags are powered by the emitting
antenna, making them smaller and cheaper.
RFID localization systems have already been the object of an
implementation [6] and will therefore not be further discussed in
this paper.
2.1.3 WLAN (IEEE 802.11)
WLAN, commonly known as Wi-Fi, imposed itself as a technology
of choice for midrange wireless communication. The signal range
varies with the norm used, the most common (802.11 b/g) having a
theoretical range of 100m. It is now widely used by the general
public to connect to the internet at home and through public
hotspots. For the same reasons, this technology is also implemented
in most enterprise locations. Most portable devices (computers,
smartphones) now have embedded Wi-Fi antennas and can be used
to localize a person. Liu et al. reports [3] a precision varying from
1m to 5.4m when used on its own, depending on the solution used.
When implemented in pair with an ultrasound solution, it’s
precision can be greatly improved to 2-15cm.
2.1.4 Ultrasounds
Ultrasounds are sound waves with frequencies higher than the
upper audible limit of human hearing. Therefore, they can be used
without disturbing people in the vicinity. Several methods exist to
measure distances using ultrasounds: Received Signal Strengths
(RSS); Time of Arrival (TOA); Time Difference of Arrival
(TDOA); and Round-Trip Time-of-Flight (RTOF). RSS, TOA and
TDOA all require separate emitters and receivers. They are the
most used and measure the distance using either the attenuation of
the signal strength, or the Time-of-Flight (TOF) in the case of
synchronized emitters and receivers. RTOF on the other hand only
needs one transceiver, acting as both a transmitter and a receiver.
Whenever a sound is emitted, it will bounce off the first object on
its path and return to the source. The distance is then derived from
the velocity of the radio signal in the air and the travel time. This
implementation has the advantages of being small, precise and easy
to implement as a part of a cost-effective infrastructure