lazik-alps:
Lazic et al propose a system that use a combination of ultrasound and Bluetooth to obtain precise localizatoin in small and medium sized areas using a TDOA. The system was designed using time synchronized ultrasonic signal 

Range-based approaches use measured distances or angular
estimates between known anchor points to compute a position.
Range-free approaches on the other hand typically attempt
to match either synthetic or naturally occurring signatures
to a particular location.
TOA and TDOF systems both require bidirectional
coordination between the infrastructure and the
device being tracked which generally limits scalability.

[An Ultrasonic Multiple-Access Ranging Core Based on
Frequency Shift Keying Towards Indoor Localization]
Our ultrasonic ranging system is composed of one receiver (Figure 1) and multiple transmitters.
The transmitters emit an orthogonal ultrasonic coded signal, which is received and processed by the
receiver. Both transmitters and receiver are equipped with an embedded FPGA, which has two major
purposes. On the one hand, it facilitates the generation of the orthogonal ultrasonic signal, while on the
other hand, due to the high degree of parallel processing capabilities, the FPGA enables the real-time
embedded processing of the orthogonal ultrasonic signals. Transmitters and receiver are synchronized
by means of a wire, which minimizes the synchronization error during the experiments.

[Design and Implementation of a Fully Distributed Ultrasonic
Positioning System]
 This is the basic idea of iterative
multilateration. 

[Distributed FPGA-based architecture to support indoor localisation and
orientation services]
one of the most promising approaches in
localisation/orientation of users in indoor environments is the
analysis of video streaming from the consumer electronic devices
that users carry

[Gradient-Based Fingerprinting for Indoor
Localization and Tracking]
Localization can be achieved by
performing lookups within a pre-established database. On the
basis of basic fingerprinting, Horus [46] adopts a probabilitybased
inference model, where the RSSI from an AP is modeled
into a random variable in both time and spatial domains
Another issue of fingerprinting is the time-varying signal
strength and biased observations reported by heterogeneous
devices 

[GSM indoor localization]
This paper demonstrated that accurate indoor GSM-based localization is possible
thanks to the use of wide signal-strength fingerprints that include readings of up to 29
GSM channels in addition to the 6-strongest cells. We also showed that the localization
performance can be further improved by carefully selecting a subset of highly relevant
channels to be used for fingerprinting matching.
[Robust wireless signal indoor localization]
an approximation method using Bluetooth signals in conjunction with a fuzzy classifier. Bluetooth RSSI

[Indoor Localisation Using a Context-Aware Dynamic]
RSSI/ We used the ZigBee/
802.15.4 wireless communications protocol to implement
our smart meter network. ZigBee is a low data rate wireless
communications protocol that can operate on devices with
limited computing or power res

[Performance of time-difference-of-arrival ultra
wideband indoor localisation]
 The
Gaussian pulse generator, which is triggered by the 10 MHz
clock, generates a UWB pulse with centre frequency around
4 GHz. 

[Ultra-wideband-based multilateration technique for
indoor localisation]
 proposed solution as time reflection of arrival (TROA). They demonstrate in this
study how the position estimation error is improved upon by carefully considering the inherent properties of the UWB technology
and the reflection properties of transmitted UWB signalsThis paper presented a novel UWB-driven multilateration
technique for position estimation in an indoor environment.
The presented approach exploits the inherent properties of
UWB signal propagation and its definition is in conjunction
with the operational principles of the lesser studied TSOA
position estimation technique

[TDOA-Based Localization Using Interacting
Multiple Model Estimator and Ultrasonic
Transmitter/Receiver]
360 mobile transmitter, receiver anchors

[INDOOR LOCATION BASED ON IEEE 802.11 ROUNDTRIP
TIME MEASUREMENTS WITH TWO-STEP NLOS
MITIGATION]
In this paper, a complete location scheme based on RTT measurements
is proposed, analyzed and put into practice in a rich multipath indoor
environment. The PCB proposed in [12] has been taken as RTT
measuring system, and an IEEE 802.11 wireless infrastructure, already
deployed, has been used as indoor wireless technology.

[Implementing Primary Synchronization Channel in Mobile Cell
Selection 4G LTE-A Network]
In this paper, we presented an Implementing PSS in
mobile cell searching 4G, which has been proposed
cell search and selection for 4G LTE-A system. The
proposed includes synchronizations and cell
identification by using the Zadoff-chu Algorithm and
standard roots , when the based on P-SCH and S-SCH
cell specific pilot symbols, respectively. Frequency
synchronization performance can be improved through
oversampling SCH at the receiver