The Indoor Location Problem
is NOT Solved
After more than a decade of intensive work
in this area, the indoor location problem
remains unsolved. There does not seem
to exist a technology or a combination
of technologies that can recreate the
experience that GPS offers outdoors in the
indoor environment. Even though Klepal
et al. managed to achieve an impressive
1.6m accuracy solely based on off-the-shelf
access points, and Bestmann et al. were able
to achieve 0.72m location error, this level
of accuracy can only enable a subset of the
envisioned indoor localization scenarios.
Applications that require room-level or
even meter level accuracy (i.e., indoor
navigation), can be easily powered by such
technologies.
However, more sophisticated
applications such as dynamic personalized
pricing, and product placement and
advertisements in the context of retail
stores (i.e., grocery or clothing stores)
require much higher granularity of location
information. In such scenarios, there might
be tens of different products within a meter
distance from the user, rendering the
current systems inefficient.
FIGURE 4. Average location error and its standard deviation across
all teams for each of the 20 evaluation points.
TABLE 3. Automatic evaluation using the EVARILOS benchmarking
platform. For Klepal et al., the robot evaluation included only 18 out
of the total 20 evaluation points. Obstacles or failures in robot’s
navigation, prevented the robot from placing the system-under-test
above the remaining two evaluation points.
Approach Manual Robot
Bestmann et al. 0.72 0.72
Klepal et al. 1.56 1.71
TABLE 2: Average Location Error (meters)
[(ALMOST) UNPUBLISHABLE RESULTS]
30 GetMobile OCTOBER 2014 | Volume 18, Issue 4
Deployment Overhead
Remains Too High
Most of the teams that participated in
the competition had to deploy custom
infrastructure, and the rest had to
manually profile the evaluation area. From
directly observing all the teams during the
setup day of the competition, it became
clear that the deployment/profiling cost of
current approaches is prohibitively high.
All teams were given 7 hours to deploy
their hardware and/or profile a relatively
small area of 300m². Even though one
would think that 7 hours should be way
more than enough time for the teams to
setup their systems, this wasn’t the case.
Most teams (with a couple of exceptions)
required all 7 hours to set up, and for some
teams 7 hours was not enough to profile
the whole 300m² of the competition space.
This is particularly concerning given
the fact that the teams did not have to
worry about any practical issues that any
commercial deployment would impose
(i.e., aesthetics, properly hiding
the deployed equipment, etc.).
In addition, the whole process of
deploying custom hardware and profiling
the space was quite intrusive. We don’t
believe that any business owner would like
to perform either of these two tasks while
real customers are in the business.
When considering the massive size of
deployment candidate sites (i.e., shopping
malls) and how intrusive, time consuming
and labor intensive the processes of
deploying hardware and profiling the space
are, realistic indoor location deployments
that can achieve centimeter-level accuracy
seem infeasible at this point. Reducing the
overhead and manual labor required by the
different indoor location technologies is of
paramount importance for their success.
Custom Hardware Solutions
Are Not Mature Enough
Most of the competing teams employed
customized hardware in their systems.
However, only Bestmann et al. was able to
achieve better accuracy than the top two
infrastructure-free approaches (Klepal et al.,
Laoudias et al). Even though solely based
on commercially available access points
and sensors, these two approaches were
able to achieve less than 2 meters location
error, performing significantly better than
most infrastructure-based approaches. Even
worse, the winning system by Bestmann
et al., achieved a location error of 0.72m,
which is only half of the infrastructure-free
approaches’ error.
Given that infrastructure-based
solutions require orders of magnitude
higher deployment cost (i.e., more time
consuming, higher financial cost, more
intrusive etc.) compared to infrastructurefree
approaches, the improvement they
currently offer in terms of localization
accuracy does not justify their existence. We
believe that infrastructure-based approaches
are promising, but nowhere close to where
they should be. To become an interesting
alternative, any approach in this area needs
to achieve significantly higher localization
accuracy than traditional WiFi-based
indoor location techniques.
Changes in the Environment
Impact Accuracy
Even though previous studies have
already shown that large objects such as
furniture and human presence can impact
localization accuracy, indoor location
technologies are typically evaluated on
static environments. By modifying the
furniture setup in one of the rooms in the
evaluation area we were able to quantify
the impact of large objects on different
indoor location approaches. Infrastructurefree
approaches that rely on WiFi signals
can experience up to 1 meter of location
error increase due to furniture setup
changes (Table 2). This is particularly high
considering that the average location error
of the top infrastructure-free approach
was 1.6m. However, the increase in
location error depends heavily on the
implementation. For instance, the top two
teams in the infrastructure-free category
experience less than 0.5m or even no
increase in error at all when the furniture
setup is altered.