 Range measurements: The measurements aim to
find the differences of the TOA of the signals from the
transmitter to the three receivers whose locations are
known. Each range difference determines a hyperbola, and
the intersection point of the two hyperbolas is the estimated
location of the querying node. For each receiver, the
relative TOA is determined by applying correlation between
the received signal and the template signal. 


[An Ultrasonic Multiple-Access Ranging Core Based on
Frequency Shift Keying Towards Indoor Localization]
Distance estimation requires time synchronization, a correlator peak detector and a timer module.
Time synchronization enables the devices to have a common time reference between transmitter and
receiver, which is used to estimate the time of travel of an ultrasonic signal. In our implementation,
we choose to synchronize the devices by means of wires. The transmitter pulls the wire to a logic “1”
while sending and to “0” when idle. The receiver synchronizes itself against the transition from “0” to
“1”, and the correlator calculates the signal equality against a given orthogonal code. When the signal
shows a strong correlation with the code, a correlation peak occurs. The time difference between the time
synchronization and the correlation peak is proportional to the distance between transmitter and receiver.
In order to keep track of this time difference, a module keeps track of the highest correlation peak time.

[CSI-Based Indoor Localization]
RSSI-based
schemes have been widely used to provide location-aware
services in WLAN. However, in this paper, we observe that
RSSI is roughly measured and easily affected by the
multipath effect which is unreliable. We then use the finegrained
information, that is, CSI, which explores the
frequency diversity characteristic in OFDM systems to
build the indoor localization system FILA. In FILA, we
process the CSI of multiple subcarriers in a single packet as
effective CSI value CSIeff , and develop a refined indoor
radio propagation model to represent the relationship
between CSIeff and distance. Based on the CSIeff , we
then design a new fingerprinting method that leverages the
frequency diversity

[Improving the accuracy of ultrasound-based localisation systems]
Distance is measured using the difference in time-offlight
of RF signals and ultrasound signals. The time
difference for travelling a distance d between the
ultrasound signal and the radio signal is
t ¼ tus  trf ¼ d
vultrasound
 d
vradio
:
For a distance d of 10 m, the radio signal needs
about trf  30 ns. The ultrasound signal, however,
will need about tuf  30 ms. As trf << tus, trf can
safely be omitted from the above term. Unfortunately,
the speed of sound is not constant. Indoors it
varies mainly with temperature.


The beacons simply sent a constant ultrasound ‘‘tone’’
for a short period of time. The receiver should ideally
detect this tone right at its first ‘‘edge’’. In practice, it
took the tone decoder several milliseconds to detect
the incoming carrier tone. With this setup, the distance
measurements had errors in the range of several tens of
centimetres for perfectly aligned ultrasound transmitters
and receivers. When the ultrasound parts were
only slightly misaligned, we had even worse readings
(see also [13]). We were able to improve the system by
discarding the analogue tone decoder. Instead, we fed
the amplified input signal to a comparator circuit. The
output is a binary signal that was directly fed into a
microcontroller’s capture unit. Tone detection was
done in software [14]. We recently became aware that
Cricket changed to the same technique [13, 15]. The
results were promising for aligned ultrasound transmitters/receivers:
all measurements were within ±2 cm
of the actual distance. Measurement errors grew with
the misalignment of the transceivers. When misaligned
by more than 35, the measurements became completely
unreliable. Our current approach is to use pulse
compression on the ultrasound channel to get accurate
distance measurements

[Improving the accuracy of ultrasound-based localisation systems]
Using a sampling rate of 160 kHz, a theoretical bestcase
resolution of about 2 mm could be expected.
However as the signal is phase coded, the resolution
cannot be less than the wavelength of the ultrasound
signal, which is about 8.6 mm. To achieve this accuracy
in practice, very long PN sequences are needed, which
would affect memory and CPU needs as well as the
position update rate. The chip rate of the signal gives
an absolute worst-case resolution (upper bound) of
20 cm.

Multiple measurements may be obtained from various anchors and subsequently
combined in an optimal or suboptimal way to obtain an estimate of the position of
the mobile device. This process of obtaining a position estimate from multiple observations
is usually referred to as multilateration. Whenever the number of observations
reduces to three, then the process is referred to as trilateration, or triangulation, which
corresponds to classical geometric concepts.

[Indoor Localisation Using a Context-Aware Dynamic]
We presented a context-aware tracking system that tracked
users in an indoor environment. The context-aware system
used a wireless smart metering network that consisted of
power meter nodes placed throughout a building. A user carried
a mobile node that tracked their current position. A
smartphone could be used to view the mobile nodes current
position, via a cellular or wireless LAN connection.
The context-aware tracking system localised a person’s
position by combining wireless trilateration, a dynamic position
tracking model, and a probability density map. The integral
use of these three factors allowed the context-aware
tracking system to achieve reasonable localisation accuracy
with a sparsely and irregularly dispersed wireless network.

[Profiling-Based Indoor Localization Schemes]
based on a given set of RSS readings Φ, this map
is explored to search for a set of Knearest neighbors (KNN)
of Φ in terms of minimizing the RSS distance.