lazik-alps
Our ultrasound ranging signals consist of a 50ms up-chirp
between 20kHz and 21.5kHz followed by a 50ms period of
silence to wait for any reverberations to decay significantly.
The silence duration as well as the volume is adjustable
based on the room size and is determined during the configuration
process. In the following time slot we broadcast an
orthogonal 50ms down-chirp between 21.5kHz and 20kHz
to further minimize possible interference from reverberation
from the previous time slot and to allow the periods of silence
between transmission to be kept to a minim
Lazik-indoorPsuedo
Our proposed approach uses a modulation scheme similar
to Chirp Spread Spectrum (CSS). A chirp is a linearly
frequency modulated pulse that increases or decreases over
time between two frequency ranges. Since the mobile device only
knows the difference in arrival times with respect to each
other and not an absolute point in time, this is called pseudoranging.
A similar approach is used by GPS. This implies
that the mobile devices do not need to synchronize (or explicitly
communicate) with the infrastructure, which makes
the approach highly scalable in the number of receivers and
better for preserving privacy.
 Our system is also
designed to work with standard speakers and ordinary mobile
devices without additional hardware.

The receiver can be any mobile
device that is able to record sound inside the 19−24kHz
frequency range. The frequency range is limited by the sampling rate of the audio hardware, along with filtering
on the microphone’s analog front-end.

After correlating the reflected signal with the original tone
waveform, a signal with a broad base similar to that in Figure
3(a) can be seen. The magnitude as well as the breadth of
this signal increase proportionally to the length of the pulse,
therefore increasing the received signal magnitude, but decreasing
its range resolution. Pulse Compression on the other
hand employs chirp waveforms that linearly increase (or decrease)
in frequency as ranging signals. Now when the received
signal is correlated with the original chirp, the width
of the intercorrelated signals is smaller than what you would
see from a standard sinusoidal pulse.
The
peak value after filtering is identical, but the chirp appears to
be compressed (hence the name Pulse Compression)

[Time-varying multichirp rate modulation for multiple access systems] introduces the use of chirp-rates as a mechanism
to assign uniquely modulated chirp signals to users. This
approach decomposes each chirp into two interconnected
chirps with different frequency rates that change at the halfway
point of the symbol. Figure 4 illustrates a scheme that
supports four unique symbols across a shared bandwidth.
Each rate represents a different signal waveform that is correlated
with the received signal to extract the embedded sequences
of data. We provide each transmitter with a unique
ID, which is encoded as a series of up-chirps, each representing
two bits. It is worth noting that [22] was based entirely
on simulation. One contribution of this paper is a validation
that such rate adaptation can work in practice.

lazik-ultrasonic Time
The ultrasonic signals generated by the system must be
able to provide accurate ranging information, support multiple
access and encode data to identify the transmitter. 
. Chirps benefit from
an effect known as Pulse Compression, which increases the
SNR at the receiver by a factor T Δf over a sinusoidal signal
at equal transmission power, where T is the signal duration and
Δf is the bandwidth. This improves both the range resolution
as well as the SNR of the data symbols for better detection.

[Ultrasonic multiple-access ranging system using
spread spectrum and mems technology for indoor localization] using gold codes and FHSS/DSSS

[Improving the accuracy of ultrasound-based localisation systems]
The beacons simply sent a constant ultrasound ‘‘tone’’
for a short period of time. The receiver should ideally
detect this tone right at its first ‘‘edge’’. In practice, it
took the tone decoder several milliseconds to detect
the incoming carrier tone. With this setup, the distance
measurements had errors in the range of several tens of
centimetres for perfectly aligned ultrasound transmitters
and receivers. When the ultrasound parts were
only slightly misaligned, we had even worse readings
(see also [13]). We were able to improve the system by
discarding the analogue tone decoder. Instead, we fed
the amplified input signal to a comparator circuit. The
output is a binary signal that was directly fed into a
microcontroller’s capture unit. Tone detection was
done in software [14]. We recently became aware that
Cricket changed to the same technique [13, 15]. The
results were promising for aligned ultrasound transmitters/receivers:
all measurements were within ±2 cm
of the actual distance. Measurement errors grew with
the misalignment of the transceivers. When misaligned
by more than 35, the measurements became completely
unreliable. Our current approach is to use pulse
compression on the ultrasound channel to get accurate
distance measurements
These are
modulated using binary phase shift keying (BPSK).
BPSK matches the computational abilities of our
beacons and achieves a good coding efficiency of
1 baud Hz–1 of bandwidth. For our ultrasound transducers,
this yields a maximum data rate of about
2,000 chips per second (as we have a usable bandwidth
of about 2 kHz). The PN sequences must have
the characteristic to provide a good autocorrelation
function to get a sharp peak. Barker codes are a class
of well-known codes that possess the required correlation
properties (see Fig. 4). The disadvantage of
Barker codes is the limited maximum code length of
13 chips. 

we
briefly discussed the problem of improving the position
update rate by coordinating beacons and by using
orthogonal sequences that allow the ultrasound signals
to be sent completely concurrently. The second method
turned out to be feasible only with a high computational
overhead and also, because the length of the
sequences, the benefits are questionable.

[Indoor Global Localisation in Anchorbased
Systems using Audio Signals]
In the approach presented in this paper, in which information concerning the
anchor’s position travels through the channel embedded in the signal, successful
data transmission is critical. Even if the MDP with respect to the anchors is precisely
determined, if the anchor positions are wrong due to bad reception this will result in
bad positioning, localisation estimation can be the wrong indoor infrastructure.
Therefore, the data transmission problem must be assumed as one of the most important
parts of this global localisation system. Therefore redundancy, error detection/correction
and filtering techniques are employed to avoid significant errors.

The Golay codeword has useful properties regarding its use in data transmission:
. Cyclic Invariance. A 23-bit Golay codeword may be cyclically shifted by any
number of bits and the result is also a valid Golay codeword;
. Inversion. An inverted 23-bit Golay codeword is also a valid Golay codeword;
. Minimum Hamming Distance. The Hamming distance between any two Golay
[24,12] codewords is always eight or more bits;
. Error Correction. The correction mechanism of Golay decoding can detect and
correct up to three bit errors per codeword.

[An Efficient Zadoff-Chu Based
Communication System]
A Zadoff–Chu (ZC) sequence, also referred to as Chu
sequence or Frank–Zadoff–Chu (FCZ) sequence, is a
complex-valued mathematical sequence which, when
applied to radio signals, gives rise to an electromagnetic
signal of constant amplitude, whereby cyclically shifted
versions of the sequence imposed on a signal result in zero
correlation with one another at the receiver. A generated
Zadoff–Chu sequence that has not been shifted is known
as a "root sequence".
ZC sequences exhibits the property that cyclically shifted
versions of itself are orthogonal to one another if each
cyclic shift is greater than the combined propagation delay
and multi-path delay-spread of that signal between the
transmitter and receiver, in the time domain.
ZC sequences are used in the 3GPP LTE [3] air interface
in the Primary Synchronization Signal, random access
preamble, uplink control channel, uplink traffic channel
and sounding reference signals . The spectrum of the ZC
sequence is shownn Fig.3.
Fig.3. Spectrum of the ZC sequence
Two modifications are required for using this spectrum as
pilot. One is a spectrum that is constant in the centre is
needed. For this the spectrum is shifted by letting the
carriers having amplitude near zero be on the side lobes as
shown in Fig. 4.
Fig.4. Spectrum of the ZC sequence with FFT shift.
The second modification is to create three cells equal to
zero (to carry data) for every cell used by the pilot and
spreading the overall spectrum over an 8k symbol. For this
the time domain sequence obtained from the IFFT of the
previous spectrum (Fig. 2.) is repeated four times

[Generalized Cross-Correlation Properties
of Chu Sequences]
In this paper, we investigated detailed cross-correlation properties
for Chu sequences and obtained that i) the possible values
of the magnitude of the cross-correlation function depends
only on the GCD between and , ii) the maximum
magnitude distribution function among a given Chu sequence
set in a closed form as in Theorem 3, which shows that the maximum
magnitude distribution tends to spread out as the number
of divisors increases, and iii) the upper and lower bounds on
442 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY, VOL. 58, NO. 1, JANUARY 2012
the maximum number of available Chu sequences satisfying a
given cross-correlation constraint and the corresponding partial
Chu sequence set construction algorithm. Numerical examples
show that the proposed bounds are quite tight and the proposed
construction algorithm is near-optimal up to fairly large value
of .
A